Jerome Powell and the FED are about to
change everything I'm giving this to you
straight I'm going to explain why right
here today I've taken the notes I need
to bring you some extremely important
information we've got to look at this in
depth if you are willing to stick with
me through this video I'm going to give
you exactly what you need to make the
right decisions here in 2024 let's begin
no time to waste Powell keeps talking
about normalization and rebalancing but
you can't go back to 2019 whatever we
have a big shock in the economy like in
2008 2020 the economy has changed they
cannot do what they did before without
causing Havoc already we are dealing
with the effects of inflation they are
looking at it during this time saying
okay well what can we do they're not
going to bring interest rates higher
they don't want to actually have a
strong economy as we know and so what we
can expect
here on out is more of the same a weaker
currency as a result of all of this in
relation to real Goods but I'm going to
go much deeper than that let's look at
what has happened not just with the
Federal Reserve but with all of the
central banks they printed a heck of a
lot of money and now they're doing
quantitative tightening they're starting
to unwind a little bit of that but what
do we know for certain it is that they
are not going back to what they used to
call
normalization they never got there but
at least they would talk about it now
that subject doesn't come up yes their
balance sheets are not at the peak that
they were before but even the discussion
about going back to having you know a
small balance sheet or nothing on the
balance sheet as it once was is no
longer a topic of discussion what can we
expect with that it's that they want to
consume all of the assets you have to
understand this if this was a foreign
entity and they were buying all this
stuff up printing up money buying it up
you would have concerns you would say
well I don't really like this and I
don't agree with it and I want it to
stop but in this case here they do it
and they say well the fed that's our
team you know whatever but they're not
this is a foreign establishment in a
sense they don't work for the population
you are forced to use their currency as
legal tender in the United States and
broadly we expand throughout the world
everything is priced in US dollar
Federal Reserve notes and so we are all
at the mercy of what they do now of
course all central banks generally act
in sync with each other this is a
problem and I'm about to go one level
deep feds power not far from confidence
needed to cut rates so I have these few
things right down here and we'll talk
about them further as I'll show you the
actual quotes I'll show you the charts
uh but what do we know what has actually
been discussed I'm not talking about
some analyst far out there that makes a
claim I'm talking about people closest
to the matter okay first thing interest
rates are likely to be
cut we're hearing this from Jerome
Powell we're hearing this from other
voting members of the fomc what else
inflation would remain sticky has
remained sticky at this time and would
be allowed they are so what does that
mean so you know they're not going to
need inflation to go down to 2% that is
something that they could say well you
know what this part here we're going to
let it be a sliding scale they've
already discussed this hang in there
I'll show you okay and uh basically
saying that they're going to allow more
QE quantitative easing money printing
but through the back door they love the
back door all right and um we'll talk
about this in a second but um we got to
understand what comes next okay what is
next like okay buddy what does this all
mean we will discuss that at the end if
you have the patience this is Nick timos
I brought this up when it first came out
Nick timos is what they call the FED
Whisperer he works for the Wall Street
Journal they give him information and
then he basically releases it through
the Wall Street Journal or Twitter and
then we could see how the market reacts
to it that's what they love to do and so
what does he say here well quoting as
you can see that they will allow above
2% inflation Target okay they will allow
that and the number that they quote in
here is
2.8% okay um that's where they're
expecting it to be and and basically
saying that's okay so understand this
understand why this changes everything
because no longer are they going for
that 2% Target they are basically just
saying ah you know what the job is done
and that means without inflation
actually being squashed they are going
to allow more devaluation of your
currency my goodness it's already been
such a problem and they are going to
pour gasoline on the inflationary
Inferno you got to realize this
documented facts here but I'm not done
let's continue hit that Thumbs Up by the
way on the way um you know as we move
through this a video you got to hit it
now before you forget Powell noted there
had been big declines in core inflation
figures but said that the FED would want
to see more progress of course same kind
of thing but stating this yes we love
the fact that inflation's gone down yes
yes yes all right and then the FED
policy rate was at the peak for this
tightening cycle saying that's it
they're not increased unless something
big changes they are not going to
increase that is Jerome Powell I'm not
talking like I said it's not just some
CNBC article this is Jerome Powell
saying this and other members of the
fomc voting members saying that this is
it so what can we expect we can expect
more Cuts rather than like the the
expectation here we don't know what's
going to
happen but the expectation is that we'll
get more Cuts before anything else so
keep that in mind all right now you look
at this you could see it fed seen
sticking with three Cuts despite higher
inflation that's what you got to
understand here they are willing to make
those cuts even though inflation is not
down at that 2% you got to realize that
that's what this video is about they are
changing their tune that yes our
Target's 2% but we don't have to get
there right away we're going to be a
little bit relaxed about that and that's
coming out information right now their
official Target is 2% it's documented on
their website Federal reserve.gov but
and and Powell has said that that is our
goal 2% Target however they are willing
to let it slide before they begin
cutting rates because they don't want to
do too much in terms of slowing down the
economy growth and inflation projections
May Edge higher economists expect
tapering of the balance sheet to start
mid year so we're going to see at the
June or July time frame whether they do
so at the time of the recording of this
video uh we are just before the Federal
Reserve comes out with their meeting
perhaps by the time you watch this video
the meeting has already come out and
maybe we'll get a little bit more
insight as to what's going on obviously
stay tuned to the channel and I'll bring
you everything the Federal Reserve is
basically what I obsess over I've been
doing this channel since 2011 and nobody
has covered it in depth like this
because that's really my focus QT has
made significant but not substantial
progress in reversing QE you see QE is
sort of in a way different than Q T is q
and QT so we got quantitative tightening
that's when they shrink their balance
you quantitive easing when they expand
their balance sheet it works slightly
different but for all intents and
purposes one increases liquidity one
takes it away and of course where there
is more liquidity you generally have
risk assets that increase risk assets
what is that considered to be well you
have things like your cryptocurrencies
it's stocks and of course we can go into
the risky stuff all right but here's
where it gets funny shout outs to the
finance Friday crew we can talk more
about this but um on Friday but I want
you to see this okay because don't want
you to wait until then what
QT reserves have been rising so we
haven't covered this at least for the
past 2 weeks but
reserves um have been climbing look at
that I want you to see what's going on
here they have been steadily climbing
throughout this period and that tells us
what does that mean well when the feds
when we got these reserves here um this
happens to correlate very very
accurately with the stock market the
stock market's been rising and so has uh
the reserves it depends on the time
timeline you look at and you know it
goes to be you hey it's not so accurate
and all this stuff well you got to kind
of look at the different timelines okay
it's very important what I'm seeing here
is that reserves are in fact increasing
and that generally is very bullish for
stocks Now Stocks have gone crazy um as
of late so we'll see what happens but in
general this is supportive of the
bullish aspect of the markets this is
just talking about um you could see
Jerome P again the chair of the FED said
it was likely to make Broad and material
changes to proposals to rewrite Bank
Capital rules talking about basil 3 and
so on what is so interesting about all
of this all of the fraud all of the
craziness that has happened over the
years the Federal Reserve says oh we're
going to be tough we're going to be
strong just like with inflation it's not
true you can't believe these people they
tell you time and time again that
they're going to fix things are going to
make inflate no don't believe any of
them so what is my message to you what
do I have here is basically that you can
expect further devaluation of your
currency that's what I've told you today
in this video how the Federal Reserve
will change everything and as a result
if they're going to continue to devalue
your currency what can you do well if
you buy something today instead of
buying a 6 months from now instead of
buying it a year from now you're
basically getting it on sale that's one
simple way to do it you've got to take
action there's two things okay there's
the pillars of prosperity it's something
that I've talked about over and over
again pillars of prosperity there's two
aspects one is increase your income and
one is preparedness or self-sufficiency
you can do both you can do more of one
than the other whatever you want to do
but these two things are so important so
you've got to get a hold of all of that
you can increase your income
substantially in order to basically be
able to provide for yourself and your
family at the same time preparedness
will lower your expenses uh that's just
the way it goes that's the world that we
live in today and I hope that that was
helpful I have a playlist I mention it
all the time but I always see the uh
comments where's the solutions buddy
well in addition to that uh you can go
to the how to and solutions playlist I
have an entire playlist about Solutions
hours and hours and hours of content in
addition for those who you know who
don't read books and stuff you know I've
got two books but uh you know the way
the world works you can also go to my
website compass you can see the money
gps.com click on Compass totally free
education right there for you no email
no pay wall no nothing the money gps.com
hit that thumbs up button to support the
channel I hope to see you tomorrow on
here where we'll talk about the Federal
Reserve and what's going on I'll see you
then take care